README.md, before:

# ncg

> New component generator

https://github.com/bllio/ncg

**ncg** is a command-line tool for generating [React][react] [TypeScript][typescript] components.

[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/bllio/ncg)](LICENSE)
[![npm Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@bllio/ncg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bllio/ncg)

- [ncg](#ncg)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Creating a component](#creating-a-component)
      - [Component naming](#component-naming)
    - [Display help menu](#display-help-menu)
    - [Version check](#version-check)
  - [Background](#background)
  - [Alternative(s)](#alternatives)
  - [License](#license)

## Installation

To install ncg using [npm][npm], run the following command in your terminal:

```sh
npm install --global @bllio/ncg
```

## Usage

### Creating a component

To create a component, in your terminal run:

```sh
ncg new <componentName>
```

where `<componentName>` is the name of the component you want to create.

For example, to create a component named `Card` you can run:

```
ncg new Card
```

This creates a `Card.tsx` file in the current working directory with the following content:

```tsx
export default function Card() {
  return <div></div>;
}
```

If a file with the same name already exists in the current working directory, the operation will be cancelled without creating any files.

#### Component naming

The `ncg new` command only accepts a valid JavaScript identifier name as the component name. The argument passed to the command is validated using the [`is-identifier`][is-identifier] module.

As per the [official React documentation][react-component-casing], React component names must always start with a capital letter. Even so, ncg expects you to handle the casing by yourself.

### Display help menu

To display all available options and commands, run:

```sh
ncg --help
```

### Version check

To check the currently-installed version, run:

```sh
ncg --version
```

The output should look similar to this:

```sh
version 0.0.1
```

## Background

ncg was originally designed as a tool to generate React components that make use of the JavaScript [barrel pattern][barrel]. At the time, I was using the directory structure described in [this blog post][directory-structure-post] for most of my React-based projects, so the initial design for ncg was based on the [new-component][new-component] tool developed by the author of the post [Josh Comeau][joshwcomeau].

I wrote my own version of new-component from scratch so that I could learn how to write a command-line tool which I could then use in my development workflows. Nowadays, I prefer to organize my React projects differently, and naturally ncg's designs evolved towards a different, more flexible solution.

ncg is currently under active development, though it is primarily a hobby project that I work on in my own free time.

## Alternative(s)

Since ncg itself is still actively being developed, it might be unstable in certain cases. For serious projects, consider using more mature tools like the following package(s):

- [new-component][new-component] - CLI tool for quickly scaffolding new components.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

<!-- URLs -->

[react]: https://react.dev/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[is-identifier]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/is-identifier
[react-component-casing]: https://react.dev/learn#:~:text=React%20component%20names%20must%20always%20start%20with%20a%20capital%20letter
[directory-structure-post]: https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/file-structure/
[barrel]: https://basarat.gitbook.io/typescript/main-1/barrel
[new-component]: https://github.com/joshwcomeau/new-component
[joshwcomeau]: https://github.com/joshwcomeau
[generate-react-cli]: https://github.com/arminbro/generate-react-cli
[npm]: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/commands/npm

Commit message:

Add support for React JavaScript

README.md, after:

# ncg

> New component generator

https://github.com/bllio/ncg

**ncg** is a command-line tool for generating [React][react] [TypeScript][typescript] components.

[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/bllio/ncg)](LICENSE)
[![npm Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@bllio/ncg.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bllio/ncg)

- [ncg](#ncg)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Creating a component](#creating-a-component)
      - [Component naming](#component-naming)
      - [Language option](#language-option)
    - [Display help menu](#display-help-menu)
    - [Version check](#version-check)
  - [Background](#background)
  - [Alternative(s)](#alternatives)
  - [License](#license)

## Installation

To install ncg using [npm][npm], run the following command in your terminal:

```sh
npm install --global @bllio/ncg
```

## Usage

### Creating a component

To create a component, in your terminal run:

```sh
ncg new <componentName>
```

where `<componentName>` is the name of the component you want to create.

For example, to create a component named `Card` you can run:

```
ncg new Card
```

This creates a `Card.tsx` file in the current working directory with the following content:

```tsx
export default function Card() {
  return <div></div>;
}
```

If a file with the same name already exists in the current working directory, the operation will be cancelled without creating any files.

#### Component naming

The `ncg new` command only accepts a valid JavaScript identifier name as the component name. The argument passed to the command is validated using the [`is-identifier`][is-identifier] module.

As per the [official React documentation][react-component-casing], React component names must always start with a capital letter. Even so, ncg expects you to handle the casing by yourself.

#### Language option

By default, ncg generates React TypeScript components that have the file extension `.tsx`. You can configure ncg to generate React JavaScript components with `.jsx` instead using the `--lang` option when calling `ncg new`.

```sh
ncg new Card --lang=js
# or
ncg new Card --lang js
```

Both of these will generate a `Card.jsx` in the current working directory.

Valid values for `--lang` include only `ts` for TypeScript (the default) and `js` for JavaScript.

### Display help menu

To display all available options and commands, run:

```sh
ncg --help
```

### Version check

To check the currently-installed version, run:

```sh
ncg --version
```

The output should look similar to this:

```sh
version 0.0.1
```

## Background

ncg was originally designed as a tool to generate React components that make use of the JavaScript [barrel pattern][barrel]. At the time, I was using the directory structure described in [this blog post][directory-structure-post] for most of my React-based projects, so the initial design for ncg was based on the [new-component][new-component] tool developed by the author of the post [Josh Comeau][joshwcomeau].

I wrote my own version of new-component from scratch so that I could learn how to write a command-line tool which I could then use in my development workflows. Nowadays, I prefer to organize my React projects differently, and naturally ncg's designs evolved towards a different, more flexible solution.

ncg is currently under active development, though it is primarily a hobby project that I work on in my own free time.

## Alternative(s)

Since ncg itself is still actively being developed, it might be unstable in certain cases. For serious projects, consider using more mature tools like the following package(s):

- [new-component][new-component] - CLI tool for quickly scaffolding new components.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

<!-- URLs -->

[react]: https://react.dev/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[is-identifier]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/is-identifier
[react-component-casing]: https://react.dev/learn#:~:text=React%20component%20names%20must%20always%20start%20with%20a%20capital%20letter
[directory-structure-post]: https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/file-structure/
[barrel]: https://basarat.gitbook.io/typescript/main-1/barrel
[new-component]: https://github.com/joshwcomeau/new-component
[joshwcomeau]: https://github.com/joshwcomeau
[generate-react-cli]: https://github.com/arminbro/generate-react-cli
[npm]: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/commands/npm
